I have seen them in the churchtogether.
God send 'em goodshipping.
Ah!
Ay that; who's here?
Mine old master Vincentio.
Now we are undone andbrought to nothing.
Come hither, crack-hemp.
Hope I may choose, sir.
Come hither, you rogue.
What, have you forgot me?
Forgot you?
Oh, no, sir, I could notforget you, sir.
I never saw you before inall my life.
What, you notoriousvillain,
didst thou never see thymaster's father, Vincentio?
What, my old worshipfulold master?
Oh, marry, sir, yes.
See where he looks out ofthe window.
Is't so, indeed.
Help, help, help!
Here's a madman willmurder me.
Help, son. Help, SigniorBaptista!
Prithee, Kate, let's standaside
and see the end of thiscontroversy.
Sir, what are you thatoffer to beat my servant?
Ah!
What am I, sir?
Nay, what are you, sir?
O immortal gods, O finevillain,
a silken doublet, a velvethose, a scarlet cloak,
and a copatain hat.
O, I am undone. I amundone.
While I play the goodhusband at home,
my son and my servant spendall at the university.
How now, what's thematter?
Why, is the man lunatic?
Sir, you seem a sober ancientgentleman by your habit,
but your words show you amadman.
Why, sir, what 'cerns it youif I wear pearl and gold?
I thank my good father Iam able to maintain it.
Thy father?
O villain, he is a sailmaker in Bergamo.
You mistake, sir.
Pray, what do you think ishis name?
His name? As if I knew nothis name.
I have brought him up eversince he was three years old,
and his name is Tranio.
Away, away, mad ass!
His name is Lucentio.
He is mine only son
and heir to the lands ofme, Signior Vincentio.
Lucentio.
O, he hath murdered hismaster.
Lay hold on him, I chargeyou, in the duke's name.
O, my son, my son.
Tell me, thou villain,where is my son Lucentio?
Call forth an officer.
Carry this mad knave tothe jail.
Father Baptista, I chargeyou, see he be forthcoming.
Carry me to the jail?
Stay, officer, he shallnot go to prison.
Talk not, Signior Gremio.
I say he shall go toprison.
Take heed, SigniorBaptista,
lest you be cony-catchedin this business.
I dare swear this is theright Vincentio.
Swear, if thou darest,hmm?
Nay, I dare not swear it.
Then thou wert best saythat I am not Lucentio.
Yes, I know thee to beSignior Lucentio.
Away with the dotard.
To the jail with him.
Thus strangers may behailed and abused!
O monstrous villain!
O, we are spoiled, andyonder, he is.
Deny him, forswear him, orelse we are all undone.
Pardon, sweet father.
Lives my sweet son?
Pardon, dear father.
How hast thou offended?
Where is Lucentio?
Here's Lucentio,
right son to the rightVincentio
that have by marriage madethy daughter mine
while counterfeit supposesbleared thine eyne.
Here's packing,
with a witness to deceiveus all.
Where is that damnedvillain Tranio
that faced and braved mein this matter so?
Why, tell me, is this notmy Cambio?
Cambio has changed intoLucentio.
Love wrought thesemiracles.
Bianca's love made meexchange my state with Tranio
while he did bear mycountenance in the town,
and happily, I havearrived at the last
unto the wished haven ofmy bliss.
But, I--
What Tranio did, myselfenforced him to.
Then pardon him, sweetfather, for my sake.
I'll slit the villain'snose
that would have sent me tothe jail.
But do you hear, sir?
Have you married mydaughter without asking mygood will?
Fear not, Baptista, wewill content you, go to,
but I will in to berevenged for this villainy.
And I, to sound the depthof this knavery.
Look not pale, Bianca.
Thy father will not frown.
My cake is dough,
but I'll in among the rest
out of hope of all but myshare of the feast.
Husband, let's follow tosee the end of this ado.
First, kiss me, Kate, andwe will.
What, here?
In the midst of thestreet?
What, art thou ashamed ofme?
No, sir, God forbid, butashamed to kiss.
Why, then, let's homeagain.
Come, sirrah, let's away.
Nay, I will give thee akiss.
Now, pray thee, love,stay.
Is this not well?
Come, my sweet Kate.
Better once than never,for never too late.
At last, though long, ourjarring notes agree,
and time it is when ragingwar is done
to smile at scapes andperils overblown.
My fair Bianca, bid myfather welcome
while I with self-samekindness welcome thine.
Brother Petruchio, sisterKatharina,
and thou, Hortensio, withthy loving widow,
feast with the best, andwelcome to my house.
Now, then--
Pray you, sit down,
for now we sit to chat aswell as eat.
Nothing but sit and sitand eat and eat.
Padua affords thiskindness, son Petruchio.
Padua affords nothing butwhat is kind.
Here, here. Here, here.
For both our sakes, Iwould that word were true.
Now, for my life,Hortensio fears his widow.
Never trust me if I beafeard.
You are very sensible, andyet, you miss my sense.
I mean, Hortensio isafeard of you.
He that is giddy thinksthe world turns round.
Roundly replied.
Mistress, how mean youthat?
Thus I conceive by him.
Conceives by me.
How likes Hortensio that?
My widow says, thus sheconceives her tale.
Very well mended.
Kiss him for that, goodwidow.
"He that is giddy thinksthe world turns round."
I pray you, tell me whatyou meant by that.
Your husband, beingtroubled with a shrew--
Ooh--
measures my husband'ssorrow by his woe,
and now you know mymeaning.
A very mean meaning.
Right, I mean you.
And I am mean indeed,respecting you.
To her, Kate.
To her, widow.
A hundred marks, my Katedoes put her down.
That's my office.
Spoke like an officer.
Ha' to thee, lad.
How likes Gremio thesequick-witted folks?
Believe me, sir, they butttogether well.
A head and butt-- anhasty-witted body
would say your head andbutt were head and horn.
Ay, mistress bride, haththat awaken'd you?
Ay, but not frighted me.
Therefore, I'll sleepagain.
Nay, that you shall not.
Since you have begun,
have at you for a bitterjest or two.
Am I your bird?
Then, I mean to shift mybush,
and then pursue me as youdraw your bow.
You are welcome, all.
She hath prevented me.
Here, Signior Tranio.
This bird you aim'd at,though you hit her not.
Therefore, a health to allthat shot and miss'd.
Shot and missed!
O, sir, Lucentio slipp'dme like his greyhound
which runs himself andcatches for his master.
A good swift simile, butsomething currish.
Oh!
'Tis well, sir, that youhunted for yourself.
'Tis thought your deerdoes hold you at a bay.
O ho, Petruchio.
I thank thee for thatgird, good Tranio.
Confess, confess, hath henot hit you here?
A' has a little gall'd me,I confess,
and as the jest did glanceaway from me,
'tis ten to one it maim'dyou two outright.
Now, in good sadness, sonPetruchio,
I think thou hast theveriest shrew of all.
Well, I say no, andtherefore, for assurance,
let's each one send untohis wife,
and he whose wife is mostobedient
to come at first when hedoth send for her
shall win the wager whichwe will propose.
Content. What is thewager?
20 crowns.
20 crowns?
I'll venture so much of myhawk or hound
but 20 times so much uponmy wife.
A hundred then.
Content.
A match; 'tis done.
Who shall begin?
That will I.
Go, Biondello, bid yourmistress come to me.
I go.
Son, I'll be your half,Bianca comes.
I'll have no halves.
I'll bear it all myself.
How now, what news?
Sir, my mistress sends youword
that she is busy, and shecannot come.
How, she is busy, and shecannot come.
I-Is that an answer?
Ay, and a kind one too.
Pray God, sir, your wifesend you not a worse.
I hope better.
Sirrah Biondello, go andentreat my wife
to come to me forthwith.
O, ho, entreat her.
Nay, then she must needscome.
Sir, I am afraid,
do what you can, yourswill not be entreated.
Now, where's my wife?
Ah, she says you have somegoodly jest in hand.
She will not come.
She bids you come to her.
Whoa!
Worse and worse; she willnot come.
O vile, intolerable, notto be endured.
Sirrah Grumio,
go to your mistress.
Say I command her come tome.
I know her answer.
What?
She will not.
The fouler fortune mine,and there an end.
Now, by my holidame, herecomes Katharina.
What is your will, sir,that you send for me?
Where is your sister andHortensio's wife?
They sit conferring by theparlor fire.
Go fetch them hither.
If they deny to come,
swinge me them soundlyforth unto their husbands.
Away, I say, and bringthem hither straight.
Here is a wonder, if youtalk of a wonder.
And so it is.
I wonder what it bodes.
Marry,
peace it bodes
and love and quiet life
and awful rule and rightsupremacy
and, to be short, what notthat's sweet and happy?
Now, fair befall thee,good Petruchio,
the wager thou hast won,
and I will add unto theirlosses 20,000 crowns,
another dowry to anotherdaughter,
for she is changed as shehas never been.
Nay, I will win my wagerbetter yet
and show more sign of herobedience,
her new-built virtue andobedience.
See where she comes andbrings your froward wives
as prisoners to herwomanly persuasion.
Katharine...
that cap of yours becomesyou not.
Off with that bauble.
Throw it underfoot.
Lord, let me never have acause to sigh
till I be brought to sucha silly pass.
Fie, what foolish dutycall you this?
I would your duty were asfoolish too.
The wisdom of your duty,fair Bianca,
hath cost me an hundredcrowns since supper time.
The more fool you forlaying on my duty.
Katharine, I charge thee,tell these headstrong women
what duty they do owetheir lords and husbands.
Come, come, you'remocking.
We will have no telling.
Come on, I say, and firstbegin with her.
She shall not.
I say she shall!
Ooh!
And first, begin with her.
Fie, fie.
Unknit that threatening,unkind brow,
and dart not scornfulglances from those eyes
to wound thy lord, thyking, thy governor.
It blots thy beauty asfrosts do bite the meads,
confounds thy fame aswhirlwinds shake fair buds,
and in no sense is meet oramiable.
A woman moved is like afountain troubled--
muddy, ill-seeming, thick,bereft of beauty--
and while it is so, noneso dry or thirsty
will deign to sip or touchone drop of it.
Thy husband is thy lord,thy life, thy keeper,
thy head, thy sovereign,one that cares for thee,
and for thy maintenancecommits his body
to painful labor both bysea and land
to watch the night instorms, the day in cold,
whilst thou liest warm athome, secure and safe,
that craves no othertribute from thy hands
but love, fair looks, andtrue obedience--
too little payment for sogreat a debt.
Such duty as the subjectowes the prince
even such a woman oweth toher husband,
and when she's froward,peevish, sullen, sour,
and not obedient to hishonest will,
what is she but a foulcontending rebel
and graceless traitor toher loving lord?
I am ashamed that womenare so simple
to offer war where theyshould kneel for peace,
to seek for rule,supremacy, and sway
when they are bound toserve, love, and obey.
Why are our bodies softand weak and smooth,
unapt to toil and troublein the world
but that our softconditions and our hearts
should well agree with ourexternal parts?
Come, come, you frowardand unable worms.
My mind hath been as bigas one of yours,
my heart as great, myreason haply more,
to bandy word for word andfrown for frown,
but now I see our lancesare but straws,
our strength as weak, ourweakness past compare,
that seeming to be mostwhich we indeed least are.
Then vail your stomachs,for it is no boot,
and place your hands belowyour husband's foot.
In token of which duty, ifhe please,
my hand is ready.
May it do him ease.
Why, there's a wench.
Come on, and kiss me,Kate.
Well, go thy ways, oldlad, for thou shalt ha't.
'Tis a good hearing whenchildren are toward--
But a harsh hearing whenwomen are froward.
Come, Kate, we'll to bed.
We three are married, butyou two are sped.
Now, go thy ways.
Thou hast tamed a cursedshrew.
'Tis a wonder, by yourleave, she will be tamed so.
Hmmm.
How blessed is he thatfears the Lord
and walketh, walketh inhis ways.
Thy love, thy labor, thylove, thy labor,
thou shalt ever eat
and happy be always.
Thy wife shall as afruitful vine
by thy house sides, housesides be found.
Thy child, thy child,
thy children like theolive branches green
about thy table round.
Behold, the man that fearsthe Lord.
Most blessed, blessedshall he be.
The Lord, the Lord,
the Lord shall in satietygive
his blessing unto thee.
Thou shalt Jerusalem'sgood behold
whilst thou on earth dostdwell.
Thou shalt, thou shalt,thou shalt,
thou shalt thy children'schildren see
and peace on Israel.